## Arguing with Data

In the arguing with data reading's I particularly found the "Data Humanism" article by Giorgia Lupi to be intersting as she discussed Big Data and data visualization. In regards to Big Data, she emphasizes that it is a thing of the present. This was suprising to me as although I have heard/learned about the use of Big Data and its applications on Machine learning in other classes, I have always pictured it as being a futuristic underresearched concept. On the other hand, her points on Data Visualization were ones that I definitely agree with. A lot of the visualizations we see today are too complex and oversatured with data which makes them difficult for the average person to read. Lupi's joke about how not even Tony Stark could read these infographics was quite funny and felt quite accurate to the situation as it is unclear who these infographics are really made for. In my opinion, I completely agree with the sentiment that these graphics should be made my in a more simple way as the average reader and an expert in the field that is in relation to the data should be able to understand these graphics. 

I think the point's that Lincoln Mullen makes in his article "Isn't it obvious?" go hand in hand with the points made in the "Data Humanism" article as he points to the fact that graphics should be immediately interpretable by their viewer. Additionally, I thought that it was quite a compelling and uniquie point that one may be able to use data in order to support their arguement no matter what side of the arguement they are on. I beileve this is an important point to think about as it allows us to be weary about the data we are viewing an the intenions behind the way it is being presented.