# Final Project Blog

# My Experience of building the final project
My experience of building the final project has been a stressful and unsuccessful one. My original topic selection was to track statewide carbon emission changes as a result of state legislation. I intended on doing this by tracking new instances of environmental legislation in a state, as well as the carbon footprint per capita in that state in the last decade. However, when I struggled to find legislative data I attempted to shift over to finding news coverage regarding legislation in each state. After I failed to successfully do that I found a transportation data set that broke down how people commuted to work in different states into five different categories; carpool; drove alone; public transportation; motorcycle, Taxi, or other; worked from home as I had recently learned that the burning of fossils fuels for transportation was one of the leading causes of Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the United States. However, this data did not wind up being usable for the data visualization I needed to perform. In the end, I had to focus my analysis on states with the largest carbon emissions shift in the datasets eighteen year period. Throughout this whole process, I did use the library's resources and asked for librarian's help finding data but I regret not meeting with Professor LeBlanc as soon as possible in regards to my extensive struggle to find data.

# Analysis
From the Altair visual (which can be found here) it can be seen that the three states with the largest increases in carbon emissions between 2000 and 2018 were Idaho, Nebraska, and Ohio. Off conjecture, it is interesting to note that all three of these states are red states which indicates that they are typically against the installment of climate change regulation. This could potentially mean that these increases are due to a lack of climate change regulation. The visual also shows that the three states with the largest decrease in carbon emissions were Maine, the District of Columbia, and Tennessee. Off conjecture, it is interesting to note that two of these three blue states which indicate that they are typically for the installment of climate change regulation. This could potentially mean that this decrease is due to the passing of climate change regulations.

# Future Plans
As published Data Scientist Erin Davis states in her article "The Courage (And Disappoint) of Pitching a Visual Essay", "Work on a project you genuinely love, because it is going to take a lot of time and effort. My article took a year from initial idea to publication." (Davis) I am passionate about this project and want to get it to work correctly with the right dataset and with mapping implemented. I have tasked myself with this as my summer project as I want to improve my research and coding skills as well. I am hoping I can get this project to a level of quality where I can put it on my resume one day.

# Impact on my perspective on computing in the humanities
This project impacted my perspective on computing in the humanities by showing me how different it is than other types of fields that have coding as an aspect to them. In my business and computer science's classes, the coding projects are more orientated around structure and things we have learned in class. Meanwhile, the project in this class is a lot less structured and allows for more individuality in one's work.

This project has also taught me the importance of well-thought-out simple data visualizations. In discussion, we have discussed how many complex visualizations result in confusion for the reader. When discussing the complexity of his visualizations in his article Lincoln Mullen states in his article "Isn't it obvious?", he states "The sense that a visualization is immediately explainable is the result, I think, of the ability of visualizations to rapidly and persuasively communicate large amounts of information." (Mullen) This further emphasizes the fact that data visualizations must be easily interpretable to the common reader, an expert in the field of study, and everyone in between.

Additionally, this project has taught me about the concept of Big Data and why it is important. From the Haunted by Data reading that compared Big Data to Nuclear Waste to the Lena example at the beginning of the semester in Jennifer Ding, Jan Diehm, and Michelle McGhee's article "Can Data Die?" were it is revealed that despite Lena's request to not use her image, "The image’s spread across digital geographies has mirrored this geographical growth, moving from mostly .org domains before 1990 to over 100 different domains today, notably .com and .edu, along with others." (Ding, Diehm, and McGhee) This shows that data that is published on the internet stays on the internet. A concept I have grown to fully understand and will continue to be aware of as I continue to create content and post it on the internet.

Finally, and in my opinion, most importantly, this project and course have taught me about Computing in the Humanities' capacity for social change. This is most exemplified in "The Shape of Slavery" by Bill Rankin and Matt Daniels where they used digital humanities in order to map the slave population and incarceration rates over time in the south to prove that "Even those who debate the role of systemic racism today have to face the obvious fact: we still see the shadow of the undeniable, institutionalized, strategic racism of the 100 years after the Civil War." (Rankin and Daniels) This is a fact that is still debated by many and is a large social issue which is why it is so great that these authors came together to prove it through mapping the data. This course and this project have taught me the ins and outs of computing in the humanities, but the most important thing that they have taught me is that digital humanities can be used to fight for social change. This is something I hope to do with the future of this project in the environmental sector as well as throughout my career as a hopeful programmer and activist.

# Refrences

Davis, Erin. “The Courage (and Disappointment) of   Pitching a Visual Essay.” The Pudding, The Pudding®, July 2020, https://pudding.cool/process/pitching-gendered-descriptions/. 

Ding, Jennifer, et al. “Can Data Die?” The Pudding, Pudding®, Oct. 2021, https://pudding.cool/2021/10/lenna/.

Mullen, Lincoln. “Isn't It Obvious?: Lincoln Mullen.” Isn't It Obvious? | Lincoln Mullen, 10 Jan. 2018, https://lincolnmullen.com/blog/isnt-it-obvious/. 

Rankin, Bill, and Matt Daniels. “Mapping Slavery against Us Incarceration.” The Pudding, The Pudding®, https://pudding.cool/2017/01/shape-of-slavery/. 
