## GETting Data

I found the article "Your Apps Know Where You Were Last Night, and They're Not Keeping It Secret" by Jennifer Valentino-DeVries, Natasha Singer, Michael H. Keller, and Aaaron Krolik to be a very concerning read. In the article the authors discussed how apps such as Google Maps can track ones location continously and sell that information without ones consent. The article then proceeds to show an interactive map in which Ms. Margin has all her movements tracked in her daily routine. In my opinion, the fact that apps can collecect and sell data unconsensually seems like a major ethical concern in the realm of privacy. I would hope some sort of legislation will be passed in the near future to ensure a users privacy by having them consent to what information of theres can be collected and sold on each app.

In regards to the Haunted By Data reading, I found the analagy between Big Data, Lakes, and Nuclear Energy to be very intersting. The Data Lake analogy helped me better understand how data flows. Meanwhile, the Nuclear Energy analogy did a great job of helping me understand that the data that is published on the internet always sticks around which further emphasizes the fact that Big Data's beneficial and harmful features aren't neccessarily detached from each other. Some questions I have in regards to Big Data is what actions are being taken in order to "clean" the internet of this data that isn't being used? Additionally, who is responsible for this data? Is it the people/organizations who original collected it or the government or something/someone completely different?